Composable Health Checks documentation (#594)
microsoft/Omex: src/Diagnostics.HealthChecks/Readme.md

## Omex Health Checks

> This project and the [`Diagnostics.HealthChecks.AspNetCore`](../Diagnostics.HealthChecks.AspNetCore/Readme.md) offers a range of composable classes, all of which implements the .NET `IHealthCheck` interface, to help the developer build their own Health Checks by reusing different behaviours with the help of extension methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project and the [`Diagnostics.HealthChecks.AspNetCore`](../Diagnostics.HealthChecks.AspNetCore/Readme.md) offer a range of composable classes, all of which implement the .NET `IHealthCheck` interface. Developers can build their own Health Checks by reusing these classes behaviors' with the help of extension methods.
```

> This approach enables the ability to create new composable objects to enrich the single Health Check with different behaviour, or substitute an existing one in the composition chain, offering more flexibility to the

Reviewer: flexibility to the what?
*the sentence does not appear to be complete.

Author: Thanks for spotting that, solved.

### Composable Health Checks classes

#### [`ObservableHealthCheck`](./Composables/ObservableHealthCheck.cs)

This Health Check provides a default implementation for exception handling for the built health check. This implementation also offers Activity creation and marking as health check, enabling the implementation of custom behaviours in the targeted controller endpoint.

"Marking" an activity means that the `Activity`'s baggage will be populated with a key and a corresponding value; WebAPI framework automatically sends the `Activity` information along with the request from an `HttpClient` call, allowing the receiver to fetch the `Activity` baggage values and acting accordingly. This feature will be leveraged when instantiating a [Liveness health check](../Diagnostics.HealthChecks.AspNetCore/HealthCheckComposablesExtensions.cs#liveness-health-check).
The `ObservableHealthCheck` will mark the `Activity` using the `MarkAsHealthCheck` method in the [`ActivityExtensions`](../Abstractions/Activities/ActivityExtensions.cs) class.

#### [`StartupHealthCheck`](./Composables/StartupHealthCheck.cs)

> This implementation offers the capability of executing the health check until it succeeds, then it will re-use the last cached successful result without repeating the Health Check execution. This behaviour is useful when an health check must be executed only at startup, to check for instance for configuration errors, reporting them back to Service Fabric engine while deploying to mark the new service as faulty, enabling the orchestrator to rollback the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This implementation offers the capability of executing the health check until it succeeds, then it will re-use the last cached successful result without repeating the Health Check execution. This behaviour is useful when a health check must be executed only at startup, to check for instance for configuration errors, reporting them back to Service Fabric engine while deploying to mark the new service as faulty, enabling the orchestrator to rollback the deployment.
```
'an' used before a word starting with h only applies where the h is silent (honor, etc.)

> The developer must keep in mind that an health check that includes the startup health check in its implementation will keep executing if the health check result results in a warning or in an error state; this can happen when the service the health check it's implemented into is created by Service Fabric in response to an automatic scale-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The developer must keep in mind that a health check that includes the startup health check in its implementation will keep executing if the health check result results in a warning or in an error state; this can happen when the service the health check it's implemented into is created by Service Fabric in response to an automatic scale-up.
```

- `healthCheckResponseChecker`: this function will receive in input all the information about the HTTP call response; its responsibility will be to report the Health Check Status as a response, and it will be used to determine the result of the Health Check.

In an effort to keep the Health Check as general as possible, the constructor will need an instance of the following:

- `IHttpClientFactory`: it will be the responsibility of the implementor to provide a way to create the `HttpClient` instance. This will be addressed in the [Implementation examples](#implementation-examples).
- `ActivitySource`: this Health Check will create an `Activity` instance. If a wrapper implementation in the composition classes chain created one already, it should be linked to the newly created one inside this health check.

The `HttpEndpointHealthCheck` offers the possibility to "mark" the created `Activity` with custom markers by defining the `activityMarker` function in the constructor.

### Implementation examples

Implementing an Health Check using the composable classes provided by default can be done following two patterns:

> - **Creating the classes manually**: this approach consists on creating the classes manually inside the constructor of the Health Check that will be registered for the application. The resulting Health Check will have to declare the join set of dependencies needed by all the default classes used, along with its own.

Reviewer: I'd suggest swapping the order of these - in the examples below too.
It seems like we'd generally want folks to use the extensions, unless they need the extra flexibility; so that approach should come first.

- **Leveraging the extension methods provided in the project**: this project provides a set of extension methods located in the [`HealthCheckComposablesExtensions`](./Composables/HealthCheckComposablesExtensions.cs) class that will complement the functionality offered by the default composable classes with default composition building for different use cases.

> In each cases, having that the Health Check will have to be registered with the DI, the implementor will have to create a class implementing the `IHealthCheck` interface directly, composing the different health checks in the constructor and storing the reference in a private field in the class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In each case, having that the Health Check will have to be registered with the DI, the implementor will have to create a class implementing the `IHealthCheck` interface directly, composing the different health checks in the constructor and storing the reference in a private field in the class.
```
